+++
date = '2025-11-23T08:55:18+03:30'
draft = false
title = 'Starvation'
+++

Warning: this post describes sensitive events about animal rights; read at your own discretion.

I have had such a close relationship with death recently. A bird of mine died, and it was mostly my fault.
I was too busy managing everything that is going on with my life, that I forgot to *feed* them. The green one, the husband, and my favorite died.
I think he was about 2 or 3 years old. Maybe more, I don't really know.

And I caught two mice this week. I started seeing mice a few days before I captured the first one. I used a glue trap; it doesn't make a mess and is efficient, but after actually catching the mouse, I needed to dispose of it.

Surely, I wouldn't let it live, but how do I get rid of it?

That's where I surfed the web, and that's when I found out what a fucked up, cruel method it is to catch mice with glue traps. Depending on how regularly you check the traps, mice could be struggling to get out of there for hours, if not days. They eventually die of dehydration and exhaustion. They defecate and urinate out of shock and distress. After they have no more energy or hope of getting out, they give in, and the glue sticks to their nostrils, suffocating them.
What fucked up fate it is to be a mouse, *and* to be stuck in a mouse trap.

On Reddit, there was already a thread about this topic. You can't find anything that isn't either cringe or fucking disgusting, and isn't already posted on Reddit.
Everyone in the comments was saying to dispose of a mouse caught in a glue trap by crushing it somehow. They said it is the fastest way to end it, as they suffer the least.

A nerd said: "Yo, guys, ya'll crazy saying to crush their heads or smash them under a boulder, just suffocate them"

Another nerd replied: "It is the least painful way to die for a mouse caught in such traps; suffocating them is actually much more agonizing."

He further elaborated: "It is easier for YOU just to throw it in a bowl and be done with it. It is easier for YOU to think of your own little conscience and feelings first before actually thinking of the mouse; nobody cares what YOU think, what matters is what *it* thinks."

He didn't exactly say these lines, but he somehow meant them. Or I am just misremembering them, or am bending the facts to suit my story.

My point is that, when humans in general think about anything, they first think: "How would people think of me if I said that?"

And this manner of thinking, my dear imaginary non-existent readers, is intoxicatingly detrimental to the evolution of societies as a drunkard high school bus driver is to the passengers. We are slowly but steadily approaching our impending doom.

Because if you think that way, you never truly add anything to *anything*. You will be only interested in your appearance and care what *others* think; before you revolutionize yourself, you will see others trying the same, and society is judging them, so why should you try to be different? Why should you think for yourself and step on unpaved roads that, instead of just being nicely built, get you somewhere?

That's how fucked up this is. We are all nothing but mimics. We have no originality (except for some Redditors).  Nobody dares to fight for what is right. Everyone acts as if they agree with the crowd, and thus, systematic evolution is decelerated.

You might now ask: "Okay, let's say that I, in some miraculous way, read the blog post of a random stranger, and let's say I somehow ignored the fact that he called me a "fool" in a million different ways, and let's say that I somehow swept all that shit under the rug, but what the fuck do you actually suggest me do?"

Exactly. You are you for a reason.



