+++
date = '2026-01-06T18:09:39+03:30'
draft = true
title = 'Currency System (Part 1)'
+++

I have been actively trying to come up with an abstract system, that helps a person to optimize their ways of living. With the hope that they manage their resources more tactfully and productively.

Here are 10 resources that I came with, I prefer the term "currency" for two groups of these resources, as they are either abstractly or concretely exchangeable with other currencies or resources.

I divided these 10 resources into 3 subgroups, type 1, type 2, and type 3.

Type 1 resources are related to the well-being of a person, on 3 planes.

Type 1 resources

1. Physical Health (PH)
2. Mental Health (MH)
3. Emotional Health (EH)

Type 2 resources are byproducts of ones mind that are create value and can be exchanged with other values. But usually they cannot be exchanged with external values, therefore, I had named them *Internal* Currencies.

Type 2 resources

1. Time
2. Will
3. Thoughts
4. Ideas

And finally, type 3 resources, are byproducts of the values we had previously produced, and can easily be exchanged with external values created by other people, therefore I named them *External* Currencies.

Type 3 resources

1. Wealth
2. Relationships
3. Wisdom

I had recently, added wisdom to the third subsystem. It fits there because at time we have the opportunity to share pieces of knowledge acquired whether by intuition or experience with somebody, and consequently enlighten them to facts they have either ignored or have not been aware of beforehand.

Type 1 resources are the cornerstone of our lives. If one is not physically healthy, their mental and emotional health consequently diminishes over time gradually. Type 1 resources have direct and immediate effect on each other.

They are to be amassed and preserved continuously in the course of our lives, and to not be exchanged with other values at low prices or without a valid cause.

The mind is much more dependable if the body is at top condition. The body is also more dependable if the mind is in piece and intact. The mind can never be at top condition, for it there is always more room in the abstract plane of thought.

Preserving the physical health is essential and the first priority of anyone who wishes to optimize the usage of their other resources and currencies. There is already enough information and wisdom spread, and ready to be used in this area, therefore we shall not discuss this furthermore.

In order to keep the mind healthy, one should be careful what they feed their mind. They should also be careful about how they exercise their mind.

If we underfeed our mind, it comes short of productive thoughts and useful ideas. If we overfeed our mind, it becomes disorderly; consequently the visions it provides become distorted and the mind becomes unreliable as it lacks focus on specific topics and is overwhelmed with blizzards of wild and untamed thoughts.

Therefore, in the matter of feeding the mind, one shall always abide by the below rules.

1. Conscious Effort: 

    Continuously expose yourself to knowledge that is coherent with your goals.

2. Slowly but Steadily: 

    Perseverance and discipline are keys to properly consume information.

3. Quality over Quantity: 
   
   Intensity in consuming knowledge reduces the effectiveness of the digestion of knowledge.

4. Coherence of knowledge:

    If multiple areas of knowledge are the subject of your studies, the act of choosing those areas, and the act of acquiring knowledge in those areas, must be orchestrated in a manner that allows for the current batch of consumed knowledge to be coherent; meaning, the areas of knowledge that you explore must be in alignment in each other.

    If you inevitably *have to* explore disaligned areas of knowledge, you should find inherent relationships between them. One can never acquire wisdom and mastery in an area of knowledge if the conscious effort of their mind is spread thin between several unrelated areas. In other words, if the areas of knowledge that you are exploring in alignment and coherence, you are more likely to reach mastery and wisdom in those areas.

Also regarding the exercise of mind, one should be aware that the power of will is a diminishable resource. Therefore, if we are training our mind in a subject, the mind will in turn become weaker to be trained in other subjects.

I am concluding the first part of this article.